Add YugabyteDB adapter (#1710)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/backup-restore.md

For an example, see [BASH: SQLite3 .backup command](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23164445/bash-sqlite3-backup-command).
</div>
<div id="YugabyteDB_Managed1" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

> Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups. See [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups, as described in [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).
```

Author: @josh-wong Thanks for the suggestion! I basically agree on it.
My slight concern is that the YugabyteDB doc is also helpful to understand scheduled backups not only on-demand backups. With the change you suggested, it seems the doc is only related to on-demand ones?

Reviewer: Oh, right😅 How about we use the following instead?

```suggestion
Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups. For details on performing backups, see [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).
```

Author: @josh-wong 💯

Author: @josh-wong Can I apply this to other sentences as well? Or you've been already working on it?

Reviewer: Sorry for the slow reply. I've updated my suggestions!

Author: @josh-wong Thanks a lot!

To specify a transactionally consistent restore point, pause your application that is using ScalarDB with DynamoDB as described in [Back up with explicit pausing](#back-up-with-explicit-pausing).
</div>
<div id="YugabyteDB_Managed2" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

> Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups. See [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups, as described in [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).
```

> Clusters are backed up automatically based on the backup policy, and these backups are retained for a specific duration. You can also perform on-demand backups. For details on performing backups, see [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I meant this paragraph should probably be removed because it sounds like automatic backups based on the policy are just fine.
What do you think?
(I came up with the next paragraph to emphasize taking backups should be done during a paused duration.)

Author: Oh, sorry, I misread your comment and just merged the change w/o removing the first paragraph.

I thought the first paragraph was okay since it described what the backups on YugabyteDB Managed are like, and then the second paragraph explained that pausing was necessary in that case. But, I agree that users who read only the first paragraph might think no pause is needed. I'll remove it.

Author: @feeblefakie Addressed it in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/pull/1710/commits/92098ba2f99a3ba4daee59bb057e40eb72416ad4. Thanks for the great feedbacks!

> If you're using YugabyteDB with other databases, to ensure transactional consistency across databases, you'll need to pause the application using ScalarDB or [ScalarDB Cluster (redirects to the Enterprise docs site)](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-cluster/) during the backup process, as described in [Back up with explicit pausing](#back-up-with-explicit-pausing).

Reviewer: Just a minor revision to reduce eliminate. (I originally read this part as `pause the application by using ScalarDB`, which I believe is incorrect.)

```suggestion
If you're using YugabyteDB with other databases, to ensure transactional consistency across databases, you'll need to pause the application that is using ScalarDB or [ScalarDB Cluster (redirects to the Enterprise docs site)](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-cluster/) during the backup process, as described in [Back up with explicit pausing](#back-up-with-explicit-pausing).
```

> If you're using YugabyteDB with other databases, to ensure transactional consistency across databases, you'll need to pause the application using ScalarDB or [ScalarDB Cluster (redirects to the Enterprise docs site)](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-cluster/) during the backup process, as described in [Back up with explicit pausing](#back-up-with-explicit-pausing).

Author: > to ensure transactional consistency across databases

Oops. I unexpectedly removed something about backup-ish taste from this... Maybe `when taking a backup` or something should've been added.

Your suggestion seems better in terms of simplicity. I'll merge it.

BTW, the reason why I put `If you're using YugabyteDB with other databases` was to clarify this description exists in `Back up with explicit pausing` section here only considering multi database scenario (`A[no]->D` below), not due to missing transaction support (`B[no]->D`). Maybe we can revisit this later as well as describing other RDBMS here considering multi database usage (`A[no]->D`).

```
flowchart TD
  A[Are you using a single database with ScalarDB?]
  A -->|Yes| B[Does the database have transaction support?]
  B -->|Yes| C[Perform <a href='#back-up-without-explicit-pausing'>back up without explicit pausing</a>]
  B ---->|No| D[Perform <a href='#back-up-with-explicit-pausing'>back up with explicit pausing</a>]
  A ---->|No| D
```

Use the `.restore` command as specified in [Special commands to sqlite3 (dot-commands)](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html#special_commands_to_sqlite3_dot_commands_).
</div>
<div id="YugabyteDB_Managed1" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

> You can restore from the scheduled backup within the backup retention period. See [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Reviewer 2: YugabyteDB seems to provide a PITR feature.
https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/manage/backup-restore/point-in-time-recovery/
So, we probably need to mention it here.
(Also, we need to enable the PITR feature by creating a snapshot schedule, so we might need to add a tab for YugabyteDB in the `Back up with explicit pausing` section.) 

But, I'm not sure about the relationships between the usual backup/restore and PITR in YugabyteDB.
It looks like [this doc](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/) doesn't describe PITR and snapshots at all, and the above doc doesn't really describe usual backup and restore.

Could you take a deeper look at the docs and check the features?

Author: @feeblefakie Good catch!

I confirmed the PITR feature with local YugabyteDB via `yb-admin` cli command worked fine.

But, as for the managed YugabyteDB, the web console only provides the full and incremental backup/restore not PITR. Also, it seems impossible to conduct the PITR via `yb-admin` cli since the managed YugabyteDB doesn't expose TCP port:7100 which is used for `yb-admin`. I'll ask YugabyteDB support team about it.

Author: @feeblefakie I received a reply from Yugabyte team. YugabyteDB Managed doesn't provide PITR feature at the moment. I'll talk with their product team later to get their plan of the feature. I'll update this document once the feature is released in the future.

BTW, I only described YugabyteDB Managed not OSS YugabyteDB since I think it's not easy to deploy the cluster by  users. Do you think we should describe OSS YugabyteDB as well?

Reviewer 2: Thank you!
I understand the current situation.
I think, for now, we can assume users use YugabyteDB Managed.

Reviewer 2: When we back up with explicit pausing, we should probably use on-demand backup during a paused period, 
so I think we should mention so in the backup-side doc.
Here, I think we should probably mention that we restore from the backups taken by the on-demand backups, not from the scheduled backups.
What do you think?

Author: @feeblefakie Thanks for the feedbacks! I overlooked the need for explicit pausing when dealing with multiple databases.

I added a description about YugabyteDB with explicit pausing https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/pull/1710/files#diff-0847747898d2c35d3723a35f59e28fbdc704e3d2146f2c5ca5e01850ac410badR136-R141.

Regarding the backup types (on-demand or scheduled backup), I think either is fine as long as the backup timing is synced with explicit pausing. I didn't elaborate it in the newly added description, but let me know if you think we should.

Use the `.restore` command as specified in [Special commands to sqlite3 (dot-commands)](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html#special_commands_to_sqlite3_dot_commands_).
</div>
<div id="YugabyteDB_Managed3" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

> You can restore from the scheduled or on-demand backup within the backup retention period. See [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can restore from the scheduled or on-demand backup within the backup retention period, as described in [YugabyteDB Managed: Back up and restore clusters](https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).
```
